cite Grinsted


Robert Fuller, Nathan Urban, Patrick Applegate, Klaus Keller
August 29, 2009

Simple Model Structure for Sea Level Regression

We propose the following model for a simple regression analysis of sea level rise:

S(eq,other)= a*T + b
S(eq,GIS)  = c*T + d*T^2
dS/dt(other) = ((S(eq, other) - S(other))/tau_1
dS/dt(GIS)   = ((S(eq, GIS)   - S(GIS))  /tau_2
dS/dt(total) = dS/dt(GIS) + dS/dt(other)

This model structure allows for the assimilation of historical observations of global mean sea level, global mean surface temperature, and the Greenland Ice Sheet (GIS) mass balance.  Additionally, this structure accommodates the assimilation of temperature-dependent equilibrium sea level approximations for the GIS, as appearing in Figure 6.13 of the CCSP SAP 1.2 Report.  A combined likelihood may be drawn by assimilating all of these observations.

We intentionally choose a simple representation of the GIS due to the limited number of observations of GIS mass balance.  The sparse observations of the GIS mass balance afford few degrees of freedom.  Hence, we choose a GIS model with a limited number of parameters, rather than a more mechanistic, highly parametrized model.  However, our model structure allows for the substitution of a more sophisticated model should more mass balance data become readily available.

We choose a quadratic for the GIS component of the equilibrium sea level following the parabolic shape of the curve in Figure 6.13 of the CCSP SAP 1.2 Report.  Furthermore, we have physically plausible reasons to believe that mass loss from the GIS is auto-catalytic.  These reasons include the so-called Zwally effect as well as marginal mechanics forced by increasing sea level and sea temperature.  Thus, we believe a quadratic is a good representation of the GIS component of equilibrium sea level.

One complication of a simple model for the GIS is the single response time for the GIS.  Multiple physical processes interact in the GIS on multiple time scales.  Timescales vary on the order of minutes for lake drainage events (cite Sarah Das) to tens of thousands of years for heat diffusion (cite Alley 1985.)  Thus, we should favor a response time that captures the processes that are relevant to the short time period of our assimilation and our century-scale predictions.  We have elicited an expert opinion from Richard Alley for that response time, which we will use as a Bayesian prior probability.  Another possibility is to use results from Byron Parizek's sophisticated ice sheet model to constrain an overall response time.  We will likely re-visit the response time as modeling progresses.
