distributive justice -- normative principles designed to guide the allocation of the benefits and burdens of economic activity

strict egalitarianism

John Rawls' Difference Principle -- not conform to strict equality so long as the inequality has the effect that the least advantaged in society are materially better off than they would be under strict equality
    not sensitive to the responsibility people have for their economic choices
        hence, economic responsibility:  resource-based and desert b/c of work
            gender problems:  resources of child bearing vs. market work

    like a progressive tax:  raising the level of the least well off

"Economics, at its best, can tell us the effects of pursuing different policies; it cannot, without the guidance of normative principles, recommend which policy to pursue"
    argues against free market economics?

strict equality
    index problem -- how do we measure equality?
        ex. money

    time frames
        starting-gate -- all people should start with the same wealth (and squander as they chose?)

        income always the same -- savings can make inequality (just saving?)

    criticisms
        restrict freedom

        no desert

        income != welfare

difference principle
    need incentive to create more wealth (desert), but need to help the least advantage

    1.  each person has adequate/basic rights/liberties

    satisfy two conditions:
    2a.  each person should have equal opportunity to positions/offices (with corresponding social/economic inequalities)
    2b.  social/economic inequalities should be of the greatest benefit to the least advantaged

    2b is the crux of the difference principle

    criticisms
        utilitarians -- does not maximize utility
        libertarians -- right to holdings
        desert -- some people deserve more than others b/c of their efforts, and the disadvantaged deserve their state
        not endowment sensitive -- does not compensate for natural inequalities -- handicapped

resource egalitarianism
    start with prescribed equality of resources
        people's choices result in inequalities which they deserve

    need to compensate the naturally disadvantaged?
        Dworkin proposes a hypothetical auction in which ppl buy insurance before they know their natural endowment

    criticisms
        feasibility of implementation

welfare-based
    measure and maximize preference satisfaction;  overall welfare is what matters

    criticism
        immorality
            some people benefit from the suffering of others

        majority rule
            ex. most people are racists, racists principles maximize preference satisfaction

        practicality of implementation

desert-based
    people should be rewarded according to:
        1.  contribution
    or  2.  effort
    or  3.  compensation -- more costly work should be better compensated

    reward may vary:  not necessarily economic

    criticism
        economic benefits may depend on factors over which people have little control (the disadvantaged?)
            welfarists consider this a virtue of their theory

libertarian
    entitlement by fair acquisition and transfer

    people own selves, people mix their labor with world and so come to own part of it they have improved

    historical injustices must be corrected

    criticisms
        exclusionary property rights are not necessarily the best freedom/liberty to maximize

        countries with strong property rights have great inequities

feminist
    John Stuart Mill -- limiting the state's intervention in the private lives of citizens
        nuclear family is an institution of material and political inequity for women

            Standard liberal theories, committed to neutrality in the private sphere, seem powerless to address (or sometimes even recognize) striking and lasting inequalities for women, minorities, or historically oppressed racial groups, when these are merely the cumulative effect of individuals' free behavior. 

           women have substantial disadvantages in competing in the market because of childrearing responsibilities which are not equally shared with men. As a consequence, any theory relying on market mechanisms, including most liberal theories, will yield systems which result in women systematically having less income and wealth than men. Thus, feminists have challenged contemporary political theorists to rethink the boundaries of political authority in the name of securing a just outcome for women and other historically oppressed groups.

summary
    people's beliefs about fair distribution place practical limits on what changes can be instituted today

    democracy as a form of distributive justice

    theory must be practical to be a good theory

    counterexamples don't negate theories
        even a system with some immoral results may be bettter than status quo
