what is the relation between current and future generations?

    1.  present generations have power over future generations
    2.  future generations have no practical power over past generations
            sci-fi topic?
    3.  present generations determine the identity of future generations (in a DNA sense)

person-affecting view -- future people count if, and insofar as, they have interests, just claims, or rights vis-à-vis currently living people

future people don't have rights?
    0.  non-identity -- we don't know who they will be (in a DNA sense);  we have no responsibility to anybody but our heirs??
    1.  ppl live in the future
    2.  their right to exist must be ascribed to us -- as though this is sufficient responsibility on our part
    3.  cannot congitively relate to future ppl

right to non-existence?
    do parents have a duty not to bring children into unfit conditions?

    assymetric procreational rights -- no obligation to procreate, but an obligation not to procreate if life will be miserable

threshold definition of harm of future generations

    egalitarian -- attributing equal minimal rights to people

    Priority view -- Benefitting persons matters more the worse off the person is to whom the benefits accrue, the more people are being benefited and the greater the benefits in question.

    sufficientarian standard -- Below the threshold the priority view is valid (this being the positive thesis), above the threshold the improvement of the position of the less well off is of no particular concern (this being the negative thesis)

Rawl's Just Savings
    sufficientarian standard

    "the conditions needed to establish and to preserve a just basic structure over time"
        save for future people only if such saving is necessary for allowing future people to reach the sufficientarian threshold as specified. This is known as the accumulation stage. Once just institutions are securely established - this is known as the steady-state stage - justice does not require people to save for future people

    also, people ought to leave their descendants at least the equivalent of what they received from the previous generation
        this implies duties to prior generations

historical injustices
    less owed as less of current state depends on past injustice?
        so if the Israeli's wait long enough, they will owe the Palestinians nothing?
