intrinsic value -- something is good for its own sake, in itself

extrinsic value -- value that is not intrinsic
    derivative from intrinsic value
        BUT, just b/c an intrinsic value is supervenient on another doesn't make it extrinsic

        for example, help someone in need for its intrinsic value, which gives someone pleasure, which may also be an intrinsic value

morally right vs. morally wrong
    consequentialism -- function of intrinsic value of consequences

moral responsibility
    function of intrinsic value of what you do

moral justice
    justice done is good, denied is bad;  tied to intrinsic value?

moral virtue/vice
    virtues are instrinsically good?

what is intrinsic value?
    hedonistic view is that only pleasure/pain have intrinsic value

    Moore -- thought -- experiment: consider what things are such that, if they existed by themselves "in absolute isolation," we would judge their existence to be good; in this way, we will be better able to see what really accounts for the value that there is in our world. For example, if such a thought-experiment led you to conclude that all and only pleasure would be good in isolation, and all and only pain bad, you would be a hedonist.[13]  Moore himself deems it incredible that anyone, thinking clearly, would reach this conclusion. He says that it involves our saying that a world in which only pleasure existed - a world without any knowledge, love, enjoyment of beauty, or moral qualities - is better than a world that contained all these things but in which there existed slightly less pleasure.[14]  Such a view he finds absurd.

    Chisholm -- to say that a state of affairs is intrinsically good or bad is to say that it is possible that its goodness or badness constitutes all the goodness or badness that there is in the world -- ontological?

    something has intrinsic value if its worthy of being valued for its own sake (worthy in a moral sense)
        attitude toward item matters
            attitude of desire/aversion?

        begging the question?

    noncognitivism -- ascriptions of value are neither true/fall
        emotism -- instrinsic value a function of emotions toward the item

        prescriptivism -- 
