rule-consequentialism -- the value of an act depends on rules that (are chosen to maximize | are justified by) the value of the consequences

    "the moral rightness of an act depends on the consequences of a rule" -- plato

an act is morally wrong if and only if it is forbidden by rules justified by their consequences. It also claims that agents should do their moral decision-making in terms of rules justified by their consequences. And it claims that the conditions under which moral sanctions should be applied are determined by rules justified by their consequences.

    a form of indirect consequentialism

    reflects the difficulty of decision making in ordinary consequentialism

    full rule-consequentialism selects rules solely in terms of the goodness of their consequences and then asserts that these rules determine which kinds of acts are morally wrong
        the law of averages says that following the rules invariably will produce the greatest good
            this is a good decision procedure for society to adapt
    vs.
        partial rule-consequentialism retains the notion that whether or not an act is moral still depends solely on the consequences, although rules should be used for decision making
            this is a good decison procedure for individuals to adapt

        "partial rule-consequentialism is nothing but the combination of the act-consequentialist criterion of moral wrongness with the rule-consequentialist decision procedure"

    an attempt to reconcile deontology and consequentialism?

    who choses the rules???

    may be more easier embodied in laws -- being rule based

global consequentialism -- everything should be assessed by its consequences, including not only acts but also rules, motives, the imposition of sanctions, etc.

    aka multi-dimensional direct consequentialism

    paradox problems -- potential gaps between what acts it claims to be required and what decision procedures it tells agents to use, and between each of these and blamelessness

    act-consequentialist criterion of wrongness seen as potentially bad --
        murder not wrong if it makes things slightly better than they would have been without the murder

issues of formulation
    actual vs. expected good -- The first is, what makes acts morally wrong? The second is, what procedure should agents use to make their moral decisions? The third is, what are the conditions under which moral sanctions such as blame, guilt, and praise are appropriate?

    compliance and acceptance
        acceptance -- people are comforted by the rules and that improves the amount of good?

        there is a transition cost of getting people to accept the rules
            why transition costs should not necessarily weigh as heavily...
                some moral ideas are unjustifiable -- such as racism -- surely it is desirable to change from that

                uniform moral codes have appeal, like uniform highway laws?

                children may be cheaper to teach;  but see next comment on children

        acceptance -- learning
            favors simpler codes

            children -- focused on own gratification -- very expensive to teach impartiality

arguing for
    the first way of arguing for rule-consequentialism is to argue that it specifies an underlying principle that provides impartial justification for intuitively plausible moral rules, and that no rival theory does this as well

    acts should be assessed in terms of communal consequences rather than consequences of individual acts
        again, this has the problem of partial rule consequentialism
            following the rule that is expected to produce the best results may not produce the best actual results

    second way:  comittment to consequentialist assessment
        Terry Kent? -- Sometimes the claim is that everyone's impartiality would have to be insured by the imposition of a hypothetical "veil of ignorance" behind which no one knew any specific facts about himself or herself (Harsanyi 1953; 1955)...And some of these contractualist theories maintain that what everyone in those conditions would agree to is a morality that maximizes the good.
            BUT, rules may not maximize the good
