three central concepts

    1.  virtue -- arête (excellence or virtue) -- a good character trait
        ex. honesty or generosity

            It is multi-track, concerned with many other actions as well, with emotions and emotional reactions, choices, values, desires, perceptions, attitudes, interests, expectations and sensibilities.

            virtue ethicists draw a distinction between full or perfect virtue and "continence", or strength of will. The fully virtuous do what they should without a struggle against contrary desires; the continent have to control a desire or temptation to do otherwise.

    2.  practical wisdom -- phronesis (practical or moral wisdom)
        knowing when to be courageous -- a desperado may be courageous, but this doesn't make him moral

        natural virtue -- the inclination to behave virtuously, naturally;  needs perfection by phronesis
            the road to hell is paved with good intentions!

        It is part of practical wisdom to know how to secure real benefits effectively; those who have practical wisdom will not make the mistake of concealing the hurtful truth from the person who really needs to know it in the belief that they are benefiting him.

        two properties of practical wisdom
            1.  developed from life experiences -- knowing likely consequences (consequentialist?)

            2.  recognize that some features of a situation are more important than others

                The wise do not see things in the same way as the nice adolescents who, with their imperfect virtues, still tend to see the personally disadvantageous nature of a certain action as competing in importance with its honesty or benevolence or justice.

    3.  eudaimonia -- happiness or flourishing -- living well, well-being
        true happiness?

        living a virtuous life is a NC for eudaimonia (Aristotle);  for Plato and Stoics it is NC and SC
            hedonism is not eduaimonia, but a wasted life

objections to virtue ethics
    non-codifiability
        utilitarians and deontologists believed an ethical theory should have two properties
            1.  specify rules as decision procedure that work in any circumstance
            2.  rules understandable and applicable by the non-virtuous

            practicality -- wisdom or phronesis is needed

    conflicts between virtues -- Charity prompts me to kill the person who would be better off dead, but justice forbids it
        phronesis should resolve

    which character traits are really virtues?  is this universal?

    egotitsical or self serving
        yet some virtues keep people from being burdens on others

    implicit that good things, eudaimonia, come to people who do good things -- but there is still bad luck

future
    Following Plato and Aristotle, modern virtue ethics has always emphasised the importance of moral education, not as the inculcation of rules but as the training of character
